We run it on QI a few years ago. Yeah. And which was there's no such thing as a fish?
Yeah, there's no such thing as a fish. No, seriously, it's in the Oxford Dictionary of Underwater Life.
He says it right there. First paragraph. No such thing as a fish.
Hello and welcome to another episode of No Such Thing as a Fish, a weekly podcast coming to you
from the QI offices in Covern Garden. My name is Dan Schreiber. I'm sitting here with Anna
Chazinski, Andy Murray, and James Harkin. And once again, we've gathered around the microphone
with our four favorite facts from the last seven days. And in no particular order, here we go.
James. Okay, my fact this week is that the San Francisco Fire Department's ladders are made of wood,
which is not perhaps the material you think would be good for putting near fire.
No, why are they? It's because in San Francisco, you have the wires that go over for the trams,
they're electrified. And so if they use metal ladders, they might get electrocuted.
Yeah, they have had stories of people who, when they were trying to, they were trying to fight
fires, they'd put the metal ladder and it hit a wire of some sort and just blow up the fire
fires who are climate, not completely, but like, yeah. And so they use this wood, which is very
high quality and they think that it's still fire resistant enough that it won't sell fire. High quality,
like, I've got a high quality Mahogany table at home. Bit like that. It's quite hard to set fire
to wood under the right circumstances. It doesn't just burst into flame like paper, you know. Yeah.
So this fact came from an email which I get sent to my inbox every day. It's called Now I Know,
it's by a guy called Dan Lewis and it's every day full of interesting stuff. It's really good.
We're all fans. We're all fans, yeah, exactly. No, it's just full of QI style material and it's really good.
That's, say that's very cool about fire, fire ladders big made of wood. Are there only fire
engines made of wood? No, I don't know. Are there any fire men made of wood?
But if holes are made of wood, still are they quite often? They normally don't have
holes anymore, do they? A lot of stations these days when they're built are on ground level.
And there was a room they were being being eradicated in Britain because of health and safety
concerns which has been denied, although they are being eradicated in the US. So new fire stations
don't have firemen's poles built in them usually anymore. It's a weird thing to fire
them as well because I can get downstairs quite fast. I think it's, isn't it also because so fire
stations always used to have spiral staircases, which I think is slower to get down because.
And you could injure yourself as well. Yeah. And the reason they had spiral staircases was
because in the 19th century when fire trucks were obviously drawn by horses, they kept the horses
downstairs, which is why fire stations are built on two floors often. And there was a problem with
horses running up the stairs and they're not being able to get down the stairs. I think as well,
it's because you're about to do something extremely dangerous. Lives do get lost and you can say,
oh yeah, he had some fun just before he went. Do you know about the first fire engine that we ever
had? Like that wasn't horse-drawn? There was a guy called John Lofting and he created what was
called the sucking worm fire engine. That's right. Yeah. And that was his first, that was,
he sort of painted in that way. He worked on the name a bit. Why is it called that?
Because it's water up. I guess because it sucks, it sucks something and it looks like a worm.
I'm testing. That's what it is. He invented a number of things. He also invented a horse-powered
cymbal canirling machine. I don't know what canirling is. You know on the end of a cymbal,
they have the kind of bumpy bits that you grip things it's making that. That's horse-powered.
Yeah, he did that for his power. So fire horses are quite useful, easily scared. Hence the reason
that Dalmatians are known as fire dogs. So Dalmatians are always accompanied fire engines in the 19th
century. I did not know that. And what were they used for? Loads of things. So first of all, they
would keep the horses calm around the fire. So horses will freak out around the fire and apparently
they were there as a comforting influence. But also I like the idea that the first fire siren,
fire engine siren was Dalmatians barking because one of their purposes was to, if once the alarm
sounded in a fire station, then Dalmatians would know that they had to run outside the fire station
barking and the people would know to clear the way because the five men would have to get out.
And then they would run in front because they can run really, really faster, really long
distances. They would run in front of or around the fire engine, horse-drawn fire engine,
barking and raising the alarm to everyone around saying get out of the way. That's fantastic.
They're the original fire alarm. That's wonderful. Fire in these days, they don't want to
rescue animals from trees anymore. Do they not? Well, it's not that they're in one place.
They're saying that it's much more effective to call the RSPCA because it costs about 300
quid every time somebody calls out. I heard a thing from the RSPCA that says, "If you see a
cat up a tree, we advise you to leave it for 24 hours before calling the RSPCA, as they usually
manage to get down by themselves." After all, when was the last time you saw a cat skeleton up a tree?
Wow. It's quite a good point. It's really grim, the RSPCA.
Also, the RSPCA have issued a press statement saying, "Can people please stop bringing them when
there's a fire?" It's much more effective to call the fire brigade. Yeah. There's some
animals that the London Fire Department have rescued recently, a kitten with its head stuck in a
bongo 2009. Two dogs in a toilet in Bromley in 2009. That's a big toilet, isn't it? It could be tiny
dogs, couldn't it? They could be, yeah, sorry. A chimp in a chimney in Tower Hamlet. Oh, chimp
me. That's so cool. And an adult hamster trapped in a disabled lift, a great...
So, I feel sorry for it, so they always release these press statements, emergency departments saying,
"These are the ridiculous calls we've got, and the reason we're saying this is because we want you
to stop making them." And the only effect it has is that on podcast like this, I guess we repeat what
they've told us about it. But so, a recent call to the fire service include, "There are loads of
people who get stuck in handcuffs. I think someone said about 70 people a year, call his fire department.
Nine instances of men with rings stuck in awkward places." Do you remember what that means?
It means penis. So it's not the ring going into something? Well, I have the statistic of nine
instances of men with rings stuck on the penises, so I think it might be the same as the worst
proposal ever, isn't it? She'll say no, and you'll be asked to leave the rest drunk.
Other reasons, people have called fire engines. Someone with a loose seat stuck on his head.
Do it. I really like that guy. He was only going in to get the dogs to be fair.
Did you guys know that George Washington was a volunteer firefighter?
Oh, yeah. Not. Yeah. Yeah. Other famous firefighters, there was a guy who effectively was
the evil carnival of the firefighting world called the red a dare. We heard of the red a dare?
Yeah, so he was flying planes and you would put out fires from the skies. I just read about one
of the fires that he put out that I'd not heard of, which I find amazing. It was in the Sahara and
it was nicknamed the devil's cigarette lighter. It was a plume of flame that went as high as
450 feet. Imagine that image of just a 450 foot pillar of flame down. What was it from? Was it
just a very deep hole in the ground? I think so. I think so. The magma layer. Yeah, yeah,
yeah, the whole thing is still have a seam of coal and it would have sat on fire one time.
It's just all the fuel is coming back. Yeah, I don't know for sure, but I imagine that.
It will be that and I'm always amazed that they leave it. It's like if this office sat on fire,
me just strolling out into the street. I'll never mind. That's what we're supposed to do if there's a fire.
It goes well, there's a nice fire. Yeah, don't stay. Yeah, so he had the biggest business and then
but all of his best kind of associates who he had just working for him to set up their own businesses,
which is a shame. My favorite one was two of his top right-hand men. Asgard Boots Hansen and Ed
Koot's Matthews left and I think they only left so they could start a business called Boots and Koot's.
Yeah, which is what their business was called. That's great. Room burned down, didn't it, in 64 AD?
Is that the fiddling while Ron burnt moment? Yes. What was the fiddling? Nero, the emperor,
supposed to be. Yeah, he was carrying so little about the fire that he was playing the fiddle.
Well, there are two contrasting reports, one of which says he saved everyone from the fire,
one of which suggests that he started it because he wanted to rebuild room two thirds of it burned out.
In a day? Maybe he probably claimed that but I do like the fact that when he realised people were
blaming the Great Fire of Rome on him, he diverted the blame to Christians and he had a bunch of
Christians burned and have their... Not exactly. And he would hold garden parties where he used the
burning Christians' corpses as torches to light the garden party. Wow, he might have been awkward.
That party. Yeah. Is that Mike? Yeah, you invited to the party. Yeah, but no, it was about that actually.
But I like that, it's the invitation. Does he also say guest or outdoor heater?
Let's just finish on some ways that things have caught fire in London. Okay.
Last few years, this is another London Fire Department press release. There was a fire started after
someone tried to dry out a toilet roll, they had dropped down the loo by popping it in the microwave for a few
minutes. Another one is a man using a pair of boxer shorts to vigorously apply linseed oil to a
floor cause the pants to overheat and fire to start. That must have been so vigorous. Why was it
cleaning them with his pants? It wasn't cleaning, I think he was adding the oil to kind of make it
more durable. Is that what you do with linseed oil? Wait, he was putting linseed oil on a floor
and then rubbing it with his pants. Yes. Right, that's what I question. Oh, the use of pants rather than
another rag. Yeah. Yeah. As soon as you've employed a cleaner, they turned up. You don't seem to
brought a cloth. Yeah. Got these guys. You haven't got a vacuum cleaner. Meet by sucking work.
Okay, time for fact number two. And that is my fact. And my fact this week is
astronauts do not snore. So they don't snore at all? You can't be an astronaut if you don't
if you snore or they don't snore once they're in space. A mixture of the both. Let's start it on
earth. Mostly when they're trying to find astronauts, they go through all sorts of rigorous
challenges and they test them for certain things that they know that won't work in space. One of
the things that they know won't work in space is that you'll become very irritated very quickly
if one of the people in the International Space Station has a very loud snore. That's one of the
things that they find. So they immediately disqualify people who have loud snores from being an astronaut
and they did a test where they showed five astronauts who snore roughly at 16% of the time of
their sleeping time. In space, once they got there, that 16 was reduced to less than one percent.
So space actually reduces your snoring level and they think it's because of the gravity. They
think it's because your tongue is not touching and blocking in the same way in your head. 75% of
astronauts take sleeping pills, which I find interesting if they're on the International Space Station
because most sleeping pills have warnings like "make calls drowsiness, decrease mental
alertness, problems with coordination, don't drive or operate machinery, don't engage in hazardous
occupations requiring complete mental alertness or motor coordination." That's possibly the heaviest
machinery. It's a specific warning on there. Do not operate the International Space Station if
you're taking this bill. Okay, so you're not allowed to go into space if you snore too much. Yes.
But when you go into space, people don't snore as much anyway. Yeah. It doesn't seem really fair
that you're stopping the snores from going in. They should just don't snore as much anyway.
I suppose there's too big a risk to send too big a risk. No, no, but if you send... What's the greatest
risk of outer space travel? If you send a really heavy snore into space and then they have huge
rounds with their colleagues because their colleagues can't sleep at all, that is a risk to
admission shortly. Yeah, it is very odd. The amount of tests that... or the amount of things that
can get you disqualified from being an astronaut these days, it's all to do with stuff that will irritate
people who you're hanging out with. So I got this fact, by the way, from a book called "Packing from
Mars" by Mary Roach. And it's the most fantastic book. If anyone listening to this likes astronauts,
space, Mars, Rita, it's perfect as a book. And she has all these examples that the tiny things
are going to irritate you most in space. So, and anywhere, people who are Arctic explorers and stuff,
she has all these passages taken out from French anthropologists saying, you know, it got to the point
where the way he would sip his soup or the look or the way he'd blow out a candle pissed me off so much.
Why are you taking candles to the International Space Agency? No, no, this would be like an Arctic
explorer. Again, it tells his birthday of the 18th show that we bring the candles. We've got in one of
those really funny candles that never goes out. Unlike him. Do we do snoring? Britain's loudest
snora is a woman, as far as I can tell. And so she's 60 years old, she snores at 111.6 decibels,
which is 8 decibels louder than the roar of a low-flying jet. Wow. Yeah. Presumably, she was
snoring so loud that either her husband or her kids or something said, listen, this is ridiculously
loud, but I feel like we could do something with this. We could at least get a bit of press out of
this. Yeah, let's call let's call the fire. Let's call someone to come and register your snore as
the loudest. The only way they realized it was so loud, it was quite sad. Really, she went on that
programme that was on a couple of years ago. This like snore school thing where it was a reality
TV show where people with sleep problems all hung out together in the same house. And so her husband
said, please can you do this because this is terrible for me. And she went on it and everyone else who
also had serious snoring problems heard her and went, wow, this woman is out of this world. And that's
when they tested it. Okay, well that's good. She said that's when she realised that it wasn't normal.
Okay. Okay, so you know when you see pictures of the astronauts on the moon and they're kind of
hopping around. Yeah. Do you know why they're hopping around? No. So you might think it's because
there's less gravity. So that's just a good way of you know about. Yeah. It's actually because their
spacesuits weren't built for walking. They were really solid. So the only way to move around really
was to kind of saute like a kangaroo. Like a kangaroo. That's amazing. Yeah, kangaroos in space.
Just speaking of them being on the moon, Buzz Aldrin did an AMA not too long ago on Reddit. Ask
me anything on Reddit. And he revealed that when he jumped onto the moon, so when they landed,
they didn't land hard enough that they'd gone. They expected the lunar module to go right into the
moon, but it kind of just landed so softly that it didn't actually really dig into the ground.
So the ladder from which they were meant to land on the moon on the outside was a lot higher
than it should then it was meant to be. So they had to do a big drop to the moon. So Neil,
you see him drop down and same with Buzz. Now when they're wearing their astronauts suits,
they all have this kind of diaper system for both urine and for for crapping. And what happened
was for feces. When Buzz Aldrin jumped down onto the moon, he landed so hard that he knocked the
bit of the diaper system off that was meant to collect his urine completely away. And if we all
remember, one of the first things he did on the moon was have a pee. And the pee went straight down
into his boot. So his whole two hours on the moon was him. Yeah, was him just with a full
bladder's worth a pee hanging out in his left foot. He had a terrible time. Buzz Aldrin on the moon
was hazing. While he was hopping around, there was slosh and urine by his foot. That's going to
spoil it, isn't it? A bit. Yeah, you would have that on your mind. Maybe it's the one situation where
it's big enough you don't mind about sloshing around in your own way. I don't know that because
Yuri Gagarin went back to Russia after coming back down. He says one of the biggest moments was when
he was presented to the nation effectively and he was being presented with some kind of a ward.
And he looked down and he noticed that his shoelace was untied. And that's all he can remember from
the event, the nervousness of just knowing that his shoelace was untied. So actually big moments
don't necessarily have pee in his shoes. Well, that was the other thing. You're in Gagarin.
You know, there's no seats in space. What? Yeah, they used to have seats on mere and they realized
you obviously just don't need seats in space. Who's using a seat? Is that why when you come back down
from space to reoclimatise? One of the first things I was reading about the crew, I think it was Chris
Hadfield crew that arrived back on Earth a couple of years ago. And one of the first things they give
you, like this crew, come and carry you out of the ship that you've landed on. And they put you in
especially designed reclining chair, which apparently helps you. Yeah, you sit for like half an hour to
an hour just in these chairs once you get out. They do have chairs in the module that comes back
into Earth's atmosphere. Do you do sit in a chair there? But apparently nowhere else is there a chair?
You don't need it. I would be really gutted to get up there and find out there were no chairs.
But how would you even sit? I would try and strap myself into the chair. You'd have to because
of the zero gravity. I appreciate that. That's an obstacle. But what about if you look at it?
If you want to sit down, you'd look like a dick. Like you would be the one astronaut in space who's like,
oh, what am I reading? That would be an irritant. Why is he sitting on a chair when fucking space?
Floating around on a rocking chair. Well, thanks to astronaut Murray, we have had to spend
$18 million sending a lazy boy in space.
Okay, time for fact number three. And that is Jacinski. My fact is that in March 1876,
it rained mutton tasting meat in Kentucky. Well, actually, you say it, but the reason that
they knew it was mutton tasting was obviously because they tasted it when it happened. And it was
pronounced by various people who tasted it as very palatable and a fresh meat, a butcher tasted it
and said that it tasted like sort of high quality meat. Colonel Sanders tasted it and said this is
the best thing I've ever tasted. Yeah, so what I find interesting about this, obviously there's
lots of weird stuff fell from the sky stories, but we still have specimens of this meat and we're
still trying to work out what it was. Do we know what it was? We don't know what it was. It went
through various scientists at the time trying to work out what it was. So bits of this meat kept
getting posted from one scientist to the next who all tasted. And you said it went through several
seconds. So then it was sent to this guy called Leopold Brandeis, who said it tasted like frog or
spring chicken legs, which was, and then I read in British newspaper at the time and they were saying
we have heard of showers of frogs which ought to be acceptable in France, but we do prefer the idea
of mutton tasting meat in Britain, which is just another nice example of 19th century newspaper
racism, really. I read as well that someone, and this is this is a call back for long-term listeners,
but someone after they thought that it wasn't mutton, they thought that it was star jelly,
that they thought it was the mystical appearance of this. This was Leopold Brandeis. He said it tasted
like frog and all chicken legs, and that's what he imagined star jelly would taste like. So it was
that, and then it was sent to lots of other scientists who said no, it's not, and they concluded it
definitely had animal cartilage lung tissue. Seven samples were examined by several scientists
who confirmed some of it to be lung tissue, some of it to muscular tissue, and two samples to be made
of cartilage. Can I tell you a theory that arose at the time, this was from the New York Times,
it was a journalist called William Olden, William Livingston Olden. He said, and he was not being
entirely serious here, but it was a kind of meteor shower. He said, according to the present
theory of astronomers, an enormous belt of meteoric stones constantly revolves around the sun,
and where the earth comes into contact with this belt, she has soundly pelted. Similarly,
we may suppose that there revolves about the sun a belt of venison, mutton, and other meats divided
into small fragments, which are precipitated upon the, not a serious theory, he was trying to be funny.
So the most serious theory, which arose at the time, and this is what they saw thing it was,
is vulture vomit, because vultures, as I think we know, vomit is a defense mechanism, and they can
vomit quite a lot, and the combination of stuff it was seems to imply that vultures would have been
sawing really high above, which they can saw up to seven miles above the ground. So it would
have caused it to scatter that far. Seven miles? Yes, seven miles in the air. They float the highest
bird ever found, was found when it crashed into a plane, actually, but it was flying much higher
than mountain rest. That's pretty, pretty harsh for this bird. It's like, I'm higher than it was ever been.
That's smart. Yeah. This is why they don't do that. So vulture vomit is done as a defense mechanism,
and one of the things I was reading about it was if a vulture has a predator attacking it,
the reason it will vomit, one reason might be that it's quite, it's got a bit of acidic stuff in
the vomit, and it could go in the eyes of the predator and sting and make them go off, but the other
reason is that it's an offering to say if you're hungry, have this instead of me. I know coyotes can
eat vulture vomit, but it is so acidic, because vulture's stomachs, that's why vultures can eat like
dead rotting gross meat. Yeah, yeah. Their stomachs can really break that shit down, because they're
so acidic, so I'm surprised that many things can eat vulture vomit. But it also, it doesn't sound
much of an offering, does it? It's like, oh, don't eat me, eat this disgusting acidic rotting meat.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. I don't know, actually, I'm going to eat you. Bearded vultures eat 70 to 90%
bone. Oh, I don't know. That's amazing. As you say, their stomach acid is what allows them,
is incredibly strong, and also it's what lets them have, they can destroy cholera and anthrax
bacteria, which is why they can eat such vultures. Yeah, there's a lot of antibodies that nothing
else has. Yeah, vultures will often peck at dead animals through their anus. I'm sorry to say,
other really, it's to beak back through their vein. It's to get at the entrails, which are
full of good stuff. Do you guys know what a group of vultures is? It's cool. Yeah, there is some. What is it?
Kettle. Kettle, yes. That is one of many. There are other times. Yeah, there's five in total.
Wow, what are the others? Kettle, vult. Anna, do you want to throw it on in?
Wow, damn it, I can't remember. A culture of vultures. Oh, that'd be very good, but no, there's a wake
and a committee and a venue and venue. Oh, that would be terrible, wouldn't it, if you're having a
party. Hello, I'd like to book a venue, please. Three weeks later, load of vultures, turn up,
but you're not. Yeah, the kettle refers to vultures in flight, committees, vult and venue,
refers them when they're resting in trees and a wake must be when they're eating dead stuff.
It's when they're feeding. Yeah, makes sense. Yeah, turkey vultures, we on their own legs.
Yeah, so does Buzz Aldrin. Yeah. Was he doing it for the same reason? I was just trying to cool myself
down. I think that's what they do it. They do it to cool themselves down and also there's a theory
that the urine is quite acidic and it might be a way of sterilizing their legs because they
stand in a lot of rotting flesh to feed. That's a good idea. Yeah, I wanted to move on just quickly
to things falling from the sky. I found an article from a few years ago and this was a woman who described
how a mysterious rock fell from the sky onto a derby street, not to passing goose to the ground.
That is mysterious. You thought it might have been a meteorite or something like that, but Dr. Andrew
Johnson, a geologist of the University of Derby, didn't think he was. He thought he was something
like a piece of limestone from the peak district and they asked him, yeah, but how come it came from
the sky? And he said, I haven't got a clue where it came from unless somebody threw it in the air.
Did you see that story this week? Well, a guy in San Francisco who owned a Chinese restaurant
who was trying to defrost some meat out on the street. He was caught tenderizing his meat by
bashing it on the pavement and stabbing it. And so they examined the pavement which was covered
in blackened gum cigarette butts and tracked bacteria of all gut-twisting varieties according to
the article. At least it's tender. Okay, time for a final fact and that is Andrew Hunter Murray.
My fact is that the Victorians invented a coat which doubled up as a boat.
invented by whom by Coots and Boots. There has been a Scottish version of Coots and Boots.
That's amazing. It was designed by a man called Peter Halkett who was a naval officer and he
wanted something which you could go exploring with and take it over frozen terrain but which
would cope in extreme weather and which might get you out of a tight spot. So if the frozen terrain
started melting I guess the idea is it's getting warmer so I don't need my coat anymore. But I do need
something. Amazing. Well, it was made of rubber and you should look for it online. We should try and
put up a picture of it. I'll put it on your Twitter. I'll put it on my Twitter which is that it had
four separate compartments, very sensitively in case one of the got punctured and it took a few
minutes to inflate and then it can support the weight of eight people. And the designs that he
tested a prototype on the River Thames and he went nine miles on it and some explorers did genuinely
take it with them. So I guess if you're one of the seven people who doesn't have the coat you have
to not take the piss of the idiot in the huge boat shape. Just in case it floods. Yeah, well it's
like that bra gas mask that won the ignoble price a few years ago. It's got two cups therefore can
support two people. This is an earlier version of that. I don't think that bra has been made to do.
It's called the wine rack and so far they can carry more than a bottle's worth of wine.
And so it has the double benefit of increasing your cup size. So you pull the wine into it and
you can kind of suck it out. You pull the wine into it. It's got a straw attached. It's made to hold
the wine. Oh, like one of those cool sports pets that you have it when you watch baseball.
What are those cool spots? Yeah. Dunns wearing one now. He's been wearing one since the first episode.
I'm actually wearing a bra as well. There's another one for men which is the beer belly which is
much less attractive than it can carry a six equivalent of a six pack of beer. Six pack very good.
But then during the night the man gets slimmer and the woman's breast gets smaller so he's
getting more attractive while she's chewing. It shouldn't have been like in his trousers to make his
bulge look bigger, shouldn't it? Yes. Yeah. The cocktail.
That movie has an old, different meaning now, doesn't it? Yeah, so this boat is just a co-boat, fantastic
invention. Yeah. How would you inflate it? Or is it? I don't know. I think it was, I mean it's quite
a big thing. So I presume you wouldn't have to be blowing it up. I think you'd have to pump it up,
because that'd be amazing at dinner when you take your codal and an eight-seater boat in place around
the table. Just come back to the restaurant cloakroom with your little ticket. Which one is yours?
Yeah, it's the black one that looks like a boat. Yeah, we've got eight of those. Which one is it?
You explorers. The last time we're hosting the Royal Geographical Society dinner here.
Well, the idea of the thing, it came with a walking stick which can fold out into either a paddle
or a large umbrella, so you can set sail with the umbrella or row with the paddle. Actually,
I read about a really interesting invention from roughly the same period, which was a cane,
it was a multipurpose cane, effectively the Swiss Army knife of Canes. It could do a number of
things. It could be transformed into a flute, so you can play your cane as a flute. You could catch
butterflies with it, so it must have had some sort of net that came out of it. You could measure
horses with it. That was one of the selling points. I don't know who's measuring horses.
Measure horses with any cane. This is three canes high. That's true. Well, this had a specific,
I don't know what it is that you use for. So what was it? What was the measure horses butterfly net?
What's the first one flute? And then it could also be an umbrella. This is my favourite thing in
the advertising of it. It say that it can be an umbrella. Why an umbrella? Why? Of course,
to keep you dry. While you smoke your cane pipe. So it was also a pipe. So it's fantastic.
And another one with more than one use. Albert Pratt invented a thing called a gun helmet,
which was helmets with a gun on it. You would aid your head while the target fire. And it was
very good, but the one minor disadvantage during trials was that the recoil broke the wearers neck.
You're telling mystery. How did both armies end up completely away from the target?
Do you think there's a fault with our gun helmet? No, no, more than there is with our leg grenade.
There's a really funny footage online, which I think Richard Weisman found first. Oh, it might have
been in this really good blog called Brain Pickings, but it's of when they were testing bullets and
bulletproof glass. And it's a man and woman testing it. And the man's holding this gun,
standing about 25 feet from this woman who's just holding this tiny piece of bulletproof glass
in front of her face and letting him shoot her. It's great. And she just kind of rocks back.
It's like go again, hit me again. It's very terrifying seeing someone being shot at. It's really
counterintuitive. Yeah, it's confusing to me why they always put the person behind the bullet
proof glass test. Well, if they put in front of it, it's not going to work. It was an ancestor
of Anna's who invented the gun helmet. I found a patent in 1890 for a combined stepladder,
cot, ironing board and chair. And it was designed, it was invented by one Stephen Fry.
Oh, really? Yeah. In what? 1890. Wow, prodigious. Maybe that's what he was doing before black
added. Yeah. I have one funny thing on coats. Okay. Uh, so Draco who wrote down the first legal code,
um, I think it was in the seventh century BC. It's the Conean comes from,
where draconian comes from. Um, do you guys know how he died? No. It is written that it was a sign
of appreciation if someone was doing a public performance, which he would to, um, in public throw
your coat at him as like, hello, I guess that we throw flowers or something at someone now. He's
threw your coat at him. And the way he died was one person had a boat, an eight-seater boat,
crushed Draco. It was basically that the way he died was he suffocated under a huge pile of
appreciate him. Oh, really? Oh, yeah. Because people actually liked him, didn't they? People liked him,
yeah. He despised draconian measures. Oh, my. Why are there no pictures of like people most
appreciated person of the year? And it's just a picture of coats. You don't see the person is
the mountain. If that was still true, cloakroom attendance would be the most respect to people in
society. That's true. Uh, someone's invented a jacket where you wear it as a normal jacket,
but there's an extra arm that hangs out so that your girlfriend can get underneath the arm,
but you don't need to have your arm over her. So you have two functioning arms and it's a third arm.
But does that knock knock people over in the street when you're just walking in line? When you've
been dumped. Yeah, that's a sad side of walking home. As you will be five minutes after you say,
don't worry, darling, just put this fake arm over yourself and your competitors. I've delegated
the touching of you to this product I have bought. They've also developed mattresses which have grooves
in them so that you can put your arm underneath rather than get your arm trapped under whoever you're
in bed with. Because there's always a problem that if you're lying on your side, where do you put
your other arm, which is underneath you? Oh, yeah. So it's got an armhole. Okay. The armhole. Yeah,
and then you can just put on your same. The armhole is for a girlfriend. Well, as a man, you would lie
in bed and put your arm in the groove and then your girlfriend would lie on the other side of the bed.
So you're with you, but James, so that implies a horizontal groove, but then James is way which I
prefer because I'm not ridden to the whole arms in bed. What's that about? With her boyfriend thing.
I have a fake arm product you might be interested in. I like the idea of someone to put your arm
on when you're sleeping. That has been invented as well. I think they're two different inventions. Yeah,
they are. Because someone was plagiarising someone else there. From the people who brought you the
horizontal bed groove. The vertical bed groove. One more thing about inventions. So you know how
car horns are kind of like a heart like quite horrible noises. They used to be much nicer.
And they changed that because one of Edison's assistants had a car and he nearly ran over someone
in Newark and noted that his angel's harp noise of his horn had any impact on the pedestrian.
And he realised that he had to have a much harsher sounding horn. Yeah. It'd be quite nice
ending if you did actually hit someone because they didn't see your car coming and as they were dying,
you play the angel noise to make them think they're going somewhere nice. That might be a nice
comforting ending. Nice ending. Okay, that's it. That's all of our facts. Thanks so much for listening.
If you want to get in touch with any of us about the things we've said during the course of this
podcast, you can get us either on our @QIpodcast Twitter feed or you can get us individually on our
Twitter account. So I'm on @Sriberland, James @XshapedAndy, @AndruHunter, and Anna. You can email podcast@QI.com.
And if you want to hear all of our previous episodes, you can. Just head to nosuchthingsoffish.com.
We have all of our episodes there and we will be back again next week with another episode. We'll see
you then. Goodbye.
[Music]
you
[BLANK_AUDIO]